
SDLC

1- System planning -
you only define if the new system is worth to create it, 
input - user's information
Output - System planning REPORT

2- System Requirement. 
You gather the information with 7 data gathering techniques 
 Interview
 Survey
 Quistenaire
 existing Forms
 documentations
 Observation
 Input - System planning REPORT
 output - system requirement REPORT.

3- System Design
 Create the specification of the new system.
 Has 4 steps:
    Input Design
    Output Design
    File and Database Design
    Network Design

Input - system requirement REPORT
output - the System Design Specification.

4- System Implementation
In this phase write the code for our application and implement it.
input - System Design Specification.
output - Application we created.

5- System maintenance
It includes 
    Testing
    System Installation
    post-installation evaluation

Input - application 
Output - training Report

As for responsible software development, we need to consider SECURITY in every single phase and all steps of SDLC.

source - saghafi,L.(2020).Principles of Information Systems Security (CIS 221).


 

---------- incidence response plan DDoS attack --------------------------------------

Incident requirement-
In Denial of service attack the network is flooded with alot of traffic and system resources are made unavailable. 
Assessing the requirement -
How long will the attack take to be resolved, giving an idea to IT team
Having a understanding of company assets and the type of the DDoS attack weather it is SYN flood or ping of death etc.
do the audit to indentify the network infrastructure and differentiating what is affected.

Define what a security incident is- 

In our case it is a denial of service attack, this should be communicated to the team and logged
Indetifying the flow of traffic on the network is there any suspicious behaviour, and what assets are affected by it.

Name responsible people 
Responsible people are thos who was administrating the network during, post and prior to the attack i.e. our network administrator, and other employees in the department

Including a communication plan

Having a communication plan and a proper documentation can reduce the cost of incident, this could reduce the labour cost.

Make a shortlist of security incidents

Having a shortlist of servers and other assets affected and previous security incident can help us backtract the threat

Having a clear identification of a ddos attack that is differentiating the suspecious data traffic to server 

This also include identifying what kind of attack patterns on which protocols were used and was on which layer that is network or application layer, this helps us to indentify the proper solution.

having different options as solutions should be provided in like closing the connection to mitigate the DDOS attackfrom the servers TCP/IP connections, one could Have filters and firewalls to block traffic

Planing the recovery scenarios 

Calculate the cost of this incident and Everything should be logged throughout the process and maintianed as documentation
In case of ddos attack a backup server should be maintianed to handle the DDoS load
Having alternate platform to support your users with services during ddos attacks should be implemented.

Reporting to proper authorities 

In case of a Denial of service attack the network administrative and IT support team should be immediatly notified with logs information

Improving Incidence response paln based on previous incidents.
Relate it to if the company has been affected by DOS attack previously
Formulate the solution after identifying the weak link
implement it and report the incident for future reference 

source - saghafi,L.(2020).Principles of Information Systems Security (CIS 221).

-----------------------------------employee management--------------------------------------------

security prior to employment 
Before Hiring an employment contract should be signed describing company policy and control processes.
Background Check for employees must be done on the following basis:
Their past work experience 
Letter of Recommendation (if Provided)
Employe references 
Academics
Criminal History of the applicant

security during employment 
Managers should communicate and make clear the company policies to employess, so that Every employee must be made aware of the company policies.
Employees are strictly encouraged to use the devices provided by the company.
The project details should be provided to teams on need-know-basis.
The employee must not share private information such as a professional password with anyone.
Paper documents which are not in use should be shreaded and not be taken out and thrown in company dustbin only after shreading. 
Annual employee evaluations should be done by the department managers.
Personal storage mediums are not allowed on the premises of an organization without a necessary cause.
Leaking of any product details or company strategies will be considered as insider espionage and the wrong doer will face harsh consequences.
If not presently using a system , one must shut it down. This include using printers , desktops, and any other device. 
Regular checks on the backed-up data and logs must be maintained by the employee.
Every change in project files should be committed to the project repositories and the files should be check, scanned, and further published on the network database.
Any kind of weapon is not allowed inside the organization premises.

 security at the termination of employment

At the time of termination the employee must not be allowed to access thier company system, if possible the termination should communicated through email.
Every official company email accounts should be terminated prior to send the termination letter.
If employee violates the industrial espionage agreements signed during the hiring a legal action should be taken

post-employment security requirements

Employee is not allowed to work in the same industry for the period of 2 months if he has held an privelledged position in the company and was active part of research and development team

Any information leak will be considered as industrial espionage.

source - saghafi,L.(2020).Principles of Information Systems Security (CIS 221).




Title: Caesar Cipher
   Description: This program takes in a plain text and produces a cipher of that text using the Caesar Cipher
   Usage: Please enter the plain text you want to encrypt: defend
          The ciphered text is with (key shift = 1): efgfoe
          
   How it work: Suppose Letter = a = 0, b=1, c=2, d=3, e=4
                key = 1
                ((int)Letter + key) mod 26 
                    returns the ciphered letter as a number, cipherValue
                    (char)cipherValue = '[some letter]'
                                           
                                           NOTE: ASCII 'a'=97, 'b'= 98, 'c'=99, 'd'=100, 'e'=101 



Pfleeger, C. P., & Pfleeger, S. L. (2007). Security in computing. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall. 